---
title: 'The beauty of mathematics '
date: 2020-11-30
permalink: /posts/2020/011/The-beauty-of-mathematics/
tags:
  - personal
  - COVID19
---

Hello down there, how you doin? Well there has been some good news along with this harrowing and bored up COViD quarantining. I finally passed my Ph.D. quals and am on my way to become a Ph.D. by 2024 (that means I will have the title of Dr. Dhruv Apte rather than Mr. Dhruv Apte). Geez, may sound dopey right? I honestly, don't see the difference yet- it's just me and turbulence waltzing and trying to find a suitable dance step. Nothing much in it. Although my family is quite happy at this, I have been shown how much knowledge I lack even after going through college. Damn, I could not answer questions a sophomore could have.If I was a faculty, there is a high chance I would have failed myself. How the hell didn't I know what flux is? Well, I always tried to simplify things for myself (I had alwys been a bit dim) and that simplification though helped in other places, did not help in this case. But I learnt a lot about lot of things and not just about fluids, but also about myself- I can really crank hard once I get in the flow. Unfortunately, that cranking has apparently ended after the quals with me dingling and dangling around doing almost nothing despite having a journal deadline of March. I honestly, have lost the motivation and I feel I have to call Dr. Feynmann's thoughts to help again. Let's see if they work now.

Before math, I had a fascination with biology. IF you ask me in secondary school, I wanted to become a herpetologist- study snakes and other reptiles. That is really an interesting option and quite dopey. But with the passage of time and opportunities, I took math, fell in love with it and then studied mech. and then decided to go in CFD. 

I was recently watching this documentary titled My Octopus Teacher on Netflix. It is a pretty good documentary and you will love it if you love octopuses (Octopuses have often been symbolized for powerful and manipulative orgs). I particularly don't like Octopuses much- I don't dislike them for sure. I have seen the way it is cooked to make sannakji at the Noryangjin Fish market and the Tsukiji fish market(There is this interesting channel that shows seafood cooking in East Asia and it is quite interesting to seee how culinary delights have been made after centuries of cooking). However, I also feel it is stupid to eat these animals because we are upsetting Nature's balance and that is plain stupid.
Coming bac to the doc, I was fascinated to see the narrator describing the octopus behaviour and its locomotion in the sea. While you could see it has a unique way of moving with its tentacles propelling it in the opposite direction, there is another thing tht came to my eye- The octopus was moving in a moving body of water but all we were seeing was the octopus movement. I don;t know if this rings bells but this was technically the Lagrangian way of seeing fluid flow. You could assign a relative velocity to the damn water and see how flow is visualized in a Lagrangian way. Absolutely marvellous method to teach the distinction between lagrangian and Eulerian flows. 

Let me consider another example. As the tentacles propell outwars, they release a wave. There is instability in the control volume there. What if a giant octopus propelles with such a speed, the pressure drops below the vapour pressure. Bubbles would be created and collapse creating sharp discontinuties in the water. We don't know a lot about Octopi but hey you have something in Nature that uses fluid mechanics and rather math! And this is just from a characterstic of a single animal- the beauty of Nature is not just in the colours (technically math too since we see colors as we perceive their wavelengths) but there is math behind it! And this is so hidden it may be not visisble in general. 

Dr. Feynmann had this interesting anecdote:

> I have a friend who’s an artist and has sometimes taken a view which I don’t agree with very well. He’ll hold up a flower and say “look how beautiful it is,” and I’ll agree. Then he says “I as an artist can see how beautiful this is but you as a scientist take this all apart and it becomes a dull thing,” and I think that he’s kind of nutty. First of all, the beauty that he sees is available to other people and to me too, I believe. Although I may not be quite as refined aesthetically as he is … I can appreciate the beauty of a flower. At the same time, I see much more about the flower than he sees. I could imagine the cells in there, the complicated actions inside, which also have a beauty. I mean it’s not just beauty at this dimension, at one centimeter; there’s also beauty at smaller dimensions, the inner structure, also the processes. The fact that the colors in the flower evolved in order to attract insects to pollinate it is interesting; it means that insects can see the color. It adds a question: does this aesthetic sense also exist in the lower forms? Why is it aesthetic? All kinds of interesting questions which the science knowledge only adds to the excitement, the mystery and the awe of a flower. It only adds. I don’t understand how it subtracts.

There is math in the beauty of nature and it is hidden so perfectly that it is difficult to just relive it and enjoy it if we don't have time to think (As he said). That's all for today, adios! 
